Nothing Matters.

by Carles

What if I told you that Nothing Matters?
Would it scare u?
Would u feel alone?
Would u be ‘less driven’ 2 ‘succeed’ [via ‘fulfillment’]?
Would u feel more/less alive?
Would u still be able 2 exist comfortably?
I’d hate to break the news to you, but it’s true:
Nothing Matters.

Table of Contents.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Detach yourself from accomplishment.
Accept all information as meaningless.
Understand your arbitrary place in an arbitrary society / the current ‘cultural’ landscape.
Let go of your ‘self.’
Admit that your ‘interests’ are actually constraints.
Accept human nature as misleading.
Come to terms with meaningless relationships.
Everything is a meaningless business in an oppressive industry.
The Beginning. Nothing Matters. The End.

Your accomplishments
mean nothing.

Think back to a time when you accomplished something.
You walked across a stage and maybe received a piece
of paper that symbolized your accomplishment.
Your entire family showed up. A few close personal
friends positively reinforced you with in-person greetings
and social media mentions.

Afterwards, you celebrated your accomplishment at a
‘get-together’ at a local restaurant or relative’s house.
In that moment you felt something.
Perhaps pride.
Perhaps you felt alone and empty.
Perhaps you felt anxiety.
Perhaps you felt sad the journey was over.

The entire moment was built to trick you into thinking
that you did something that matters within the context of
a world that matters, mainly for the sake of making you
feel like you matter within the context of that world.
Don’t be fooled. Let go of the idea that you ever
accomplished something remotely valuable.
Nothing Matters.

The idea that
Nothing Matters isn’t new.

Many “great thinkers” have already boldly declared
‘Nothing Matters, yall!’
They’ve contextualized the message to be applicable
within their culture/society.
No matter who your cultural oppressor is, the conclusion
is always the same: Nothing Matters.

Most cultures & civilizations just
pretend that “Everything Matters” to
maintain order and control over the
working class.

They ‘trick’ the middle-class into believing their rituals
create ‘moments’ that matter. Moments worth
‘celebrating’ and ‘indulging’ to forget how insignificant
they are in a temporary moment. Moments of solitude &
togetherness create a sense of ‘community.’
Every moment is temporary, whether it feels like
everything or doesn’t feel like anything.

You will always be ‘alone.’ No one will ever ‘know’ you.
No other human will ever ‘understand’ ‘you.’
You will never find a ‘community’ where you ‘truly
belong.’
Any sense of community is a misleading feeling of
‘togetherness’ to keep us from killing one another.

Stop telling yourself that
you are driven to ‘change
the world.’

Nothing Matters, therefore, any idea of there being a
‘world worth saving’ is 100% false.
If you think that some ‘cause’, ‘human right’ or creating a
‘better version of ‘the world’’ matters, you are just caught
in a temporary moment of hopefulness.
Hopeful that what you think/’feel’ actually matters.
There is nothing to ‘influence’ when nothing matters.

The world does not require a message that actually
matters.
You will never change anything ‘significant.’
You will never really ‘change’ anything.
Themes of tolerance, acceptance, and world peace are
arbitrary because there is no world that actually matters.

Accept the simple fact that Nothing Matters so the ruling
class doesn’t have complete control over you.
It’s okay that Nothing Matters. It is ‘liberating.’
Feel the sweet, sweet relief of nothing mattering.
Do drugs, have unprotected sex with junkies, and be a
horrible person to every one that loves you.
Or just chill and live a ‘reasonable’ life because nothing
matters & there is no ‘right’ or ‘wrong’ way to live.

Let go of the arbitrary
construction process of
creating a ‘self.’

“Life” is the process of creating a “self.”
The “self” is a coping mechanism to create personal
meaning in a world that is random and meaningless.
Piecing together “life experiences,” “moments,” & the
general process of acquiring information into something
beautiful can sometimes feel “important.”
However, no “Self” can exist because Nothing Matters.

In life, you may be driven to ‘be original,’ as if the
purpose of life is to fulfill the branded message of a
_____________ commercial.
This really just means creating a version of your ‘self’
that you believe matters to other people.
You may think your life path will venture into unchartered
territory. You are wrong.
Most humans will all experience the same random
bullshit during their meaninglessly similar lives’.

You are an immemorable piece of shit to other people.
When you exchange glances with other humans, they do
not actually notice YOU.
Every one else wants to drink your potable water, eat
your groceries, and steal your potential income. They
want to mate with your partners and have your beautiful
children.
Nothing Matters.

Why does what appears to matter so much to them to
them not matter to you?
Because Nothing Matters. However, they choose to
arbitrarily assign value to ‘the forces that construct their
identity.’
‘Envy’ and ‘jealousy’ are the most extreme coping
mechanisms for people who want to believe that things
actually matter.

You are supposed to be the brightest star in a sky full of
stars.
We celebrate people who are allegedly ‘brighter’ than
ourselves. This creates an unfair & unfounded
expectation during youth.
Our school systems should focus on math, science, and
the tools for coping with a meaningless existence.

Nothing Matters.
The idea of your ‘self’ in an external world.
The way you dress.
The way you interact with other humans & animals.
The way you take pride in your social context.
The way you take pride in your morals.
The way you think you are an extension of something
besides your self.
The way other people think you are a ‘good’/’bad’ person.

All of your ambitions are grounded in the misleading
aspects of society.
You may feel the pressure to have a disruptive, infinitely
scalable idea that ‘changes the world.’
You may believe that you some how deserve to matter
more than every one else in the world.
You may be driven to be culturally, socially, and
historically relevant.

You do not matter more than any one else because no
single human is actually special.
No One Matters because Nothing Matters.
Nothing that any one thinks matters doesn’t actually
matter due to the mere fact that Nothing Matters.
No one person ever represents anything more than just
being some other meaningless motherfucker.

Eventually, we all reach our maximum earning potential
and rationalize the daily effort it takes to ‘make a living.’
Find a a relationship, develop a comforting diet, and
create rituals with other humans that you generally find
tolerable or stimulating.
Spend your time and money finding ways to pass the
days, creating a ‘self,’ mainly in the form of a consumer
identity.

You can’t ‘personalize’ your shelter.
No ‘space’ will ever be ‘your own.’
You strive to rent or purchase a box of space that is ‘your
own.’ You can add meaningless features that add ‘value’
to your home, as if you are some idiot on HGTV who
thinks their investment in converting their personal
space into a ‘reflection of themselves’ is a valuable
pursuit.

Hardwood floors, backsplashes, ample closet space,
and double vanities are definitive proof that Nothing
Matters.
When you think of your ‘self’ you are actually just
aggregating your interests and how you spend your time.
You are biased by your surroundings into irrationally
valuing anything, and aggressively pursuing.

Constructing a ‘self’ requires believing in your ‘self.’
Believing that ‘you’ matter.
Unfortunately for ‘you’, Nothing Matters.

Information is arbitrary and
meaningless, because
Nothing Matters.

All information we obtain is biased, incomplete, untrue,
and arbitrary.
It is based in meaninglessness, and we can only make
decisions that are as arbitrary as the information that
guides our decisions.
The idea of ‘being informed’ to make any decision
implies that things matter. Your ‘decision’ is nothing
more than just an arbitrary choice in an arbitrary world.

Financial decisions imply that a fair economy determines
value and ‘market’ changes.
Romantic & personal decisions imply that human
interactions can be meaningful.
Day-to-day decisions are trivial and no meaning or data
patterns can be derived from them.
The ‘timely manner’ in which information was delivered
to influence your decision doesn’t matter.

Your entire life has allegedly been an ‘educational
process.’ You went to school. You performed. You may
or may not have ended up with ‘a career.’
There is no ‘informed’ self.
No one is ‘intelligent.’ ‘Learning experiences’ are sad
rationalizations. We can only become hyper-biased
based on the way we spend our time and energy.

All of the information that was presented to you was
arbitrary & regionally biased. The entire educational
process is an oppressive ritual meant to fill your head
with perception of a fair and rational world.
Education gives you the tools to create a “self” and a
“version of the world” where a “self” “belongs.”
Nothing Matters, especially education.

There is no ‘sense of the world’ to gather from media.
All media is corrupt and only exists to expand the reach
of a media outlet, creating a world that doesn’t actually
exist. The media is just an advertisement that a world
that a segment of the population wants to believe exists.
There are no stories that ‘need to be told.’

No ‘triumphant human spirit’ or ‘sad state of humanity’
can be extracted from any contemporary or historical
event.
No one story ‘represents the current cultural landscape’
more than any other story. Every storyteller only tells
stories to showcase their own delusions.

Following ‘the news’, feeling ‘connected to culture,’ and
building a ‘unique perspective on the world’ are
pointless.

Nothing
Matters.

There is no elevated self to build from remaining
connected to channels of information.
Self-awareness cannot exist.
Questioning ‘reality’ or ‘widely-proliferated truths’ will
never be more than just arbitrary mental exercises.
Humor, insight, and self-awareness are arbitrary
constructs that represent levels of coping with a
meaningless world.

Retaining & applying more information than the average
human makes you ‘smart.’
‘Smart’ people are just insecure ass holes who require to
the validation of existing cultural norms, societal
institutions & an audience of vocal validators.

‘Smart’ people pride themselves on how they ‘figured out
the system’ and ‘excel’ within some arbitrary &
meaningless context/industry.
Their conversations are filled with thoughts, ideas, and
opinions that ‘matter’ about a topic that ‘matters.’
You don’t need to have meaningful, informed
conversations. Talk in screams, grunts, and yells
because Nothing Matters.

I Googled “Nothing Matters.”
I ended up reading some existential internet content.

The idea that I found a page on the internet that some
how represented ‘what I am looking for’ only illustrates
how pointless & arbitrary the presentation of
information.
A business called Google indexed every page on the
internet to make them searchable. Their algorithm that
illustrates ‘the truth’ and ‘quality information’ is actually
just a page generated by a human employed by a
business that is framed as ‘quality information.’

Your interests are actually
constraints meant to
marginalize you.

The human experience has turned into a search for not
only sustainable, but also filling the allowable bandwidth
of your attention span.
You are constantly in search of content.
Infinite content is available hosted on various mediums.
You believe specific mediums matter more than others.
None of the content actually matters, because the goal is
always the same: escape from yourself.

Content is often disguised as ‘meaningful information’
and ‘meaningful community experiences.’
Celebrity news, politics, sports, the arts, ‘the internet’ and
even fiction might seem “meaningful.”
Live events, community experiences, sports games,
festivals and outdoor natural experiences construct a
“self” that is “doing something” more than “nothing.”

Content’s main goal is to make you believe that
something matters, in order to maintain your attention
span.
Content is misleads you into rationalizing how what you
are consuming is a metaphor for the human spirit.
Nothing Matters.

Eating food is your daily distraction. It is the perfect
example of creating an arbitrary industry and artistic
space out of a basic human need.
Assigning arbitrary meaning to the fuel that keeps you
alive.
Food is a meaningless life experience that has some
how been turned into an industry that overvalues both
exotic and locally produced agricultural industries.

Eventually, you will be hungry again.
Will you indulge again?
Will you ‘eat healthy’ again?
Will you ‘eat poorly’ again?
Will you find a ‘bargain meal’ again?
Will your meal satisfy contemporary standards of ethical
agricultural practices?
Will you defecate again? Yes.

Stop creating a life narrative.
There are no ups & downs.
You did not learn from ‘trials and tribulations.’
Don’t tell yourself that ‘it all worked out’ when you feel
like you reached a self-gratifying outcome.
Nothing worked out because Nothing Matters.

Obsessing over your control of the narrative of your life
is pointless because Nothing Matters.
Your life is as directionless and meaningful as the man
begging for money at the street corner with a quirky sign.
Your human interactions are as meaningful as a
homeless junkie looking for crack.
We are all just ‘trying’ to ‘survive.’
Or trying to kill ourselves. [slowly or quickly]

Anything you ‘feel’ only exists to create a narrative.
The things you experienced might as well not have
happened.
You are just some living organism, meandering thru life,
living day to day.
If you want to get existential about it, you can talk about
how we are ‘floating in space’ on a huge rock, and how
the sun will eventually explode even if we live forever.

You could rot in jail.
You could make $1,000,000 USD (and have to pay ~40%
of that to the government).
Either way, you’ll quickly come to the same realization.
Nothing Matters.

Accepting that Nothing Matters does not mean that you
are depressed, or that you believe life is ‘not worth
living.’
It just means that you are 100% aware that Nothing
Matters.

There is nothing to be THAT happy or THAT sad
about--all you can do is be influenced by your aggregated
life experiences.
Even if you talk yourself into believing ‘something
matters’ or that ‘everything matters,’ it is mainly driven by
your own self-interest.

You are mainly just looking for a comfortable context
where things appear to ‘matter’, or you just forget about
the possibility that everything you do/feel/say/think
might be pointless.
Work and life don’t need to be ‘balanced.’ Neither your
career or your life matter, so it is just a false narrative in
your brain.

You will never find a ‘career’ that ‘aligns’ with your
genuine ‘self’ and ‘interests’ in a ‘way that matters’ and
allows you to ‘positively impact’ ‘the world.’
You will never find a career that pays you ‘enough.’
People who talk about the ‘difference they are making’
are insufferable.

Based on society’s standards, all you ‘should do’ is
maximize your hourly worth, ‘save’ enough money to live
poorly after age 62 (or 75), and refrain from expending
too much effort trying to make a difference in the world.
Making a difference in the world isn’t lucrative, unless
you invent TOMS or something, then you have to feel
guilty about selling shitty, ugly shoes forever.

Don’t obsess over thinking you need to spend your time
doing something that ‘matters.’ We are all trapped in an
arbitrary industry of labor & commerce that is
‘completely retarded.’
Industries were constructed to create barriers to entry,
prevent disruption, and oppress humanity.

Human Nature is Misleading.

Don’t believe ‘human nature.’ Nothing Matters.
There is something ‘human’ inside of you that wants to
survive.
There is also something ‘human’ inside of you that wants
to feel things all the goddamn time.
The only thing that makes us all human is the certainty
that we will all die. There is no connection to try to make
to other humans to cope with the end of your life.

Every emotion you feel will eventually pass. In fact,
there’s no way to even document that your emotions are
real or grounded in anything.
It’s scary. Deep down, I do wish that everything mattered
and the things I want to care about matter.
I wish I could connect with other people in a deeper,
real-er way than any one else.
I want to believe that I’m not just arbitrarily existing.

I want to believe in a message that can change the
world.
I want to believe in myself & the people I love
comfortably existing in a context that matters.
However, all of these desires are self-serving, and based
upon the arbitrary information that I have gathered over
the course of my life.

Let go of your desire to ‘find your place’ [via
‘creating a self’] and in a world where you
matter & are surrounded by people, places
and things that matter.
I wish it wasn’t true.
But Nothing Matters. :-(

Having said that, it’s pretty awesome that Nothing
Matters.
You will be on your death bed, or have one last eternal
lucid moment before your sudden, horrible death
and think to yourself,
“The human experience was fucking pointless.”
or
“That was S0o0o0ooo0ooOOoo Rand0m!”

The ‘self’ is embedded in culture & society, which are
both false constructs.
The idea of ‘culture’ being something you can identify
with is false. You are forced into a particular culture and
“cultural appreciation” is just middle class oppression.
Art that really expresses the human condition can’t really
exist.

No one is selfless because there is no self to forfeit.
Every day, you are ‘kept informed’ with ‘news.’
You are led to believe you can ‘influence’ the outside
world.
This is new information that enters your media stream.
It is supposed to make you feel ‘connected’ to ‘a world.’
It is supposed to ‘inform’ you.

News doesn’t matter because Nothing Matters.
Your lifespan is just the amount of time you are on Earth.
All you really have to do is fill your time with shit
because Nothing Matters.
Existing from meal to meal.

Did you hear the new business was coming to town?
Did you hear about the governmental policy changes?
Did you hear about your friend’s exciting life change?
Did you hear about the fast food chain coming to your
city?
Did you hear the sports team result?
Did you hear about the widely-know human?
Did you hear about the corruption?
Did you hear about the inspiring story?

Did you hear about the next big thing?
Did you hear about the times changing?
Did you hear about the technology on the verge of being
obsolete because of the latest technology?
Did you hear about the person doing something notable
in the eyes of the audience that considers an arbitrary
act to be ‘notable’?
Did you hear about the latest ‘cultural movement’ that is
supposed to inspire people (not) to think?

Did you hear about the tragedy?
Did you hear about the terrorist attack?
Did you hear about your immediate family member’s
terminal illness?
Did you hear about the ‘deterioration’ of our society?
Did you hear about how you have to pay for something
that once was free?

Did you hear about how something that was once free is
now for sale?
Did you miss out on hearing about the event? Sorry.
Don’t bother paying attention.
Roll up in a ball on the floor and scream.
Nothing Matters.

Relationships Are Just
Temporary Distractions from
the Absolute Fact that
Nothing Matters.

It is human nature to find comfort in connections with
other beings, cherishing biological, emotional, and
intellectual connections.
Relationships are a valiant fight against the “natural”
human fear of nothing mattering. Shared time and
experiences matter, constructing a narrative of growth
with some one who isn’t yourself.

Expecting other people to be eternally fair, kind,
considerate, and loving is unrealistic.
If you want “love,” you will not find it in another person.
Your concept of “what love” means can only be
aggregated from acquired information, consumed
content, and your life experiences.
You can only really ever ‘love’ yourself. You might get
fortunate and find some one who can eternally deal with
the amount you do/don’t love yourself.

Relationships create some “solitary moment” where you
hold some one close and say, “Ya know what. Our little
life together is meaningful.”
Human nature is so misleading. It is warm, vulnerable,
and loving.
Human nature is also insecure, hurtful and resentful.
Nothing will end ‘well’ because your relationship was just
a fight against the fact that Nothing Matters.

Most relationships are constructed on a self-serving,
unhealthy foundation.
Desire to be loved. Desire to no longer feel alone. Desire
to find one’s own self. Desire to correct previous
relationship’s failures. Desire to eliminate the
insecurities of another person. Desire to achieve the
impossible dream of “happiness” in a world where
Nothing Matters.

When a person enters into a relationship operating under
the misconception that “everything matters” or that a
connection with one human being matters more than
anything else in the entire world, the “relationship” is
doomed.

Only when both members of a relationship accept that
nothing matters can they establish realistic relationship
goals. The expectation of a relationship changing
A relationship is a human construct to rationalize a
biological need to create a baby, then raise your child in
a world where “things mater.”

It is easy to believe that “family matters.”
Based on biological experiences.
Family will only ever be a rationalized burden.
Because you emerged from a networked biological set of
circumstances, you must honor your lineage.
Family is a liability, but can also be the ultimate comfort
[via tradition and ritual].

There are times when you are
supposed to feel ashamed of
yourself. You may believe an
important decision that you made will
harm yourself or others.

You’ve made horrible personal/financial decisions.
You’ve ran yourself into massive amounts of debt.
You’ve disappointed your immediate family.
You’ve disappointed yourself.
You’ve ‘failed’ despite having the opportunity to
‘prepare.’
There is no success.
There is no failure.

Nothing Matters.
Ambition.
Accomplishment.
Feeling Connected to ‘Something.’
Self.
Context.
Frustration.
Elation.

Trends.
Fashion.
Music.
Culture.
The Regional Music Festival.
Art.
The Conversation.
Sports.
Watching Real Time Live Events.

The Third World.
The First World.
The Second World.
The Fourth World.
The Digital Realm.
The Journey.
The Destination.
The Narrative.
Personal Relationships.

Orgasms.
Family.
Financial Freedom.
Your Sense of ‘Self.’
Creativity.
Oppression.
Depression.
Sadness.
Mourning.

Elation.
Joy.
The Weather.
The Government.
Taxes.
Coffee.
Craft Beer.
Farm to Table Dining.
Breakfast, Brunch, Lunch, Dinner or Drinks.

Community Involvement.
Philanthropy.
Time.
Space.
An internet connected network [via the Internet].
Memes.
Feeling in touch with humanity.
Nothing Matters.

There is no point in obsessing over the concept of ‘being
happy.’
Realistically, you are trapped in something that will
always resemble ‘your insignificant life.’
You are basically ‘middle class’, and you will only really
ever have varying amounts of discretionary income.

Every thing is a meaningless
business in an oppressive
industry.

Because human nature is misleading, realize that every
industry is built to monopolize the ‘best’ (most
misleading) wants, needs, and desires of human nature.
Nothing that even ‘feels’ pure & true is ever sustainable.
Eventually ‘society’ is just the process of celebrating the
oppressive mechanisms of middle class life.

Everything necessary to sustaining ‘healthy’ human
beings eventually becomes a branded & commodified
human life experience.
Groceries, real estate, & transportation = oppression.
Sports, festivals, live events, marathons, television
marathons, and anything that consumes your attention
span eventually becomes a medium against which to sell
advertising, sucking the alleged “life” out of the organic
beauty of any art & content.

Believing ‘things matter’ is just to rationalize your
insignificant place in the global economy.
Believing any thing matters is meant to oppress you.
Believing any thing matters is meant to distract you.
Believing any thing matters is sometimes necessary in
order to give the next generation the misleading idea that
their existence (individually or together) matters.

Your debt/savings are so inconsequential in the scale of
the global economy. Some motherfucker wipes his ass
with the entirety of your annual salary. Trust me. That
guy thinks your life is meaningless and that you might as
well ‘kill yourself’ instead of thinking your life ‘matters’
because of ‘the little things that you find meaningful.’
That rich ass bro would kill himself if he logged into your
online banking account.

You will never save enough for retirement due to
economic forces that are beyond the control of your
potential earning power.

The world is cruel. :-(
Even when you accomplish something that matters to
some one, the world is eager to move on.
The world wants to forget about you.
The world wants to marginalize you and your purest
thoughts.
The world uses your ambitions to enslave you.
Even if you earn money, you will only be extended credit
lines to use what you have anyways.

Most people just want an above average car, shelter that
they are allowed to pour ‘equity’ into, and the opportunity
to eat foods that are moderately ‘exotic’ and ‘indulgent’
without venturing too far into the Third World of Cuisine.

Protect yourself from marginalization by accepting that
Nothing Matters.
You won’t get hurt when ‘the world’ reminds you how
insignificant you are. You set yourself up for failure.
‘Nothing Matters, you naive idiot.’
-the World

It sort of sucks that Nothing Matters. :-(
It is ‘human’ to feel sad about it, but it also probably
means your existence has afforded you too many
insights into ‘the way the world works’ and ‘the faults in a
meaningful human existence.’

The feelings of love I have for the people in my life
probably don’t matter.
The moment of laughter I enjoyed with my good friend
probably didn’t matter.
My meaningful pursuit of a ‘better life’ probably doesn’t
matter.
The drive to ‘build a career’ or ‘heighten’ my earning
potential only exists based on my educational and social
experiences.

My drive to feel ‘validated’ by an
arbitrary audience or widely accepted
social institution is 100% misguided.

My drive to feel ‘the same things’ that
have been felt by other people has
only led me to the conclusion that
Nothing Matters.

There is no more information to
aggregate. There are no more
‘interesting humans’ to encounter and
forge a connection.

Things Begin.
Things End.
Things Never Come Together.
Things Never Fall Apart.
Because Nothing Matters.
(This is not a disruptive message because Nothing Matters.)

There is nothing of value to add to the world.
There is nothing of value to expose or deconstruct.

Nothing Matters.

This PDF was ‘published’ to the web on January 23, 2015.
For more information, visit http://carles.buzz/Nothing-Matters
Email Carles here.

Nothing Matters
by Carles

